it was a dark and stormy night in March
of 2019 no really it was the winds were
so strong they could take down trees and
crush them to the ground it just wasn't
a good time to be outdoors let alone
sail in the ocean yet the luxurious
Viking sky Cruiser was caught up in all
that chaos and lost all its engines on
March 21st the ship left rooms a Norway
and was heading south to stephania
people on board got to see the Northern
Lights and the snowy scenery around this
was going to be a short two and a half
day trip but then wouldn't you know it
the trouble started the forecast
predicted rough weather with the waves
reaching up to 25 feet well that was
something the cruiser could maneuver
through but it was nowhere near what
everyone experienced during the cruise
on March 23rd the ship entered justö
Vica a dangerous part of the sea known
for its rough unwelcoming waters the
winds were tossing the ship back and
forth and as they were sailing the waves
got bigger and fiercer some of them went
as high as 50 feet that's taller than
the letters of the Hollywood sign but
suddenly a huge wave came through
engulfing parts of the ship and pushing
it forcefully the wave flushed seawater
through the engine room damaging the
equipment the fuses blew and the light
bulbs in the room shut down the socket
stopped supplying power the air
conditioning stopped working and finally
the propellers of the ship halted the
engine shutdown and a full blackout
followed the cruiser like most ships had
four engines and two high-voltage
switchboards the switchboards were
supplied with power by the four
alternators which convert mechanical
energy into electricity so when all four
engines of the ship shut down everything
else stopped working
cruise ships also have emergency
generators that automatically turn on
but unfortunately they couldn't supply
all the engine functions the captain in
the bridge ordered the chief engineers
to go check the engines and see if the
problem can be fixed on board yet the
weather was no help in that situation at
first everyone thought that the engine
shut down because there was a lack of
cooling but the problem became even more
complicated
the adrenaline levels were rushing up as
the ship was battling with the 50 foot
waves the wind was blowing from the
southwest and the sailing felt bumping
as the engine shut down it became
impossible to steer the vessel and the
rough seas were pushing it towards the
land everything happened fast and 10
minutes after the shutdown a mayday call
was put out as soon as the search and
rescue teams heard the call the
operations started to save everyone on
board but there was another problem when
the rescue boats were released from the
shore the vicious winds made it unsafe
for them to travel moving people from
the ship in rough seas was a dangerous
mission so their only means of rescuing
the passengers was with helicopters at
first people feared that the ship would
not manage to come out of it in one
piece but this was a large vessel almost
650 feet long inside the ship there were
loose chairs and decorations sliding
back and forth in the rooms the plates
were falling on the floor and some of
the glassware broke even the furniture
wasn't secured anymore
the crew members advised passengers to
put on their bright orange lifejackets
and hold onto furniture that was fixed
on the floor in the meantime the
engineers were working feverishly to fix
the engines the crew also released two
anchors to keep the ship in its position
but unfortunately the anchors failed to
attach to the seabed the helicopters
were now on their way the only thing the
rescuers could see was a small dot on
their maps and it got scary as they saw
the dot moving push by forceful winds
towards the land a few minutes after the
call the ship was tossed into a shallow
area only a few feet deep and becoming
even shallower almost an hour passed and
a new message came in everyone had to be
evacuated as soon as possible the
engineers were still down in the engine
rooms and they were trying to figure out
why all four engines were offline a
handful of helicopters began their
rescue but each could only transport 15
people at a time so the crew slowly and
carefully guided the passengers onto the
deck as the helicopters approached but
this was a slow process
the pilots were trying to find their
balance above the moving ship all the
while trying to keep their distance from
each other in those strong winds the
rescue team calculated it would take
more than a day to evacuate everyone on
board they needed a better solution
it was getting dark the air was becoming
colder but the waves were slowly calming
down by midnight the engineers found the
problem and managed to fix three of the
four engines finally they could keep the
ship securely in place after such an
eventful evening morning arrived around
that time almost half the passengers
were evacuated from the ship with
helicopters to tow boats were attached
to the ship when at the front and one at
the back they were ready to take it to a
nearby port the captain called off the
rescue operations and the weather was
finally better on that morning many
people showed up and applauded the
cruise ship as it finally arrived in mol
de that afternoon so from what you
understand
engine failure is something that ships
can't experience just like airplanes and
cars and there are many reasons why that
happens it could be a mechanical problem
a human error or even not taking enough
care of the engine the incident I showed
you is quite rare these days ships
engines are built to high standards and
maintained regularly now picture this
you are a captain on a large cruise ship
and suddenly you see the engine
controllers blinking in the bridge you
immediately call the chief engineer on
board to go down in the engine room and
investigate the problem the engineers
will do all the checks to determine if
the problem is serious or if it's
something that can be fixed during the
trip
if the chief engineer decides that the
problem is unsolvable then the captain
will have several options first they'll
most likely send out a signal to get
some help in the see if the waters are
calm they might be able to tow the ship
to a nearby shore but in rough seas
they'll have to follow a different path
leaving the ship in the middle of the
ocean during a storm and heading to
safety will be the last resort it's more
dangerous to move passengers from one
ship to another then staying put on a
ship that isn't sinking
lifeboats are also off the equation they
are smaller and there's a risk they will
capsize the minute they touch the waters
though usually when an engine fails it
can be fixed on board just like what
happened with a Viking sky in Norway it
will cause some delays but hey ships are
slow anyway if the engineer can't fix
the problem and just one of the engines
failed the ship will still be able to
sail but at a snail's pace
it might also skip some ports to reach
its destination faster but the engineers
won't give up as they would still try to
fix the damage based on that the captain
will decide whether the trip will
continue or get cancelled about the
worst that could happen here would be
the ship not reaching the port on its
own and being towed to the nearest
harbour
yep the chances of the worst-case
scenario happening are minuscule so you
can sail on your next cruise fearlessly